# Introduction
The following guide details the USPTO's "Red Book" XML DTD. It is very much a work in progress and it subject to "black boxing" due to the partially closed nature of some of the XML DTD.

# XML Structure

# us-patent-grant
This element is the root element for each patent. Overall, a majority of the information is clerical in nature, however a few use cases may arise from the attributes:

1. the `file` attribute provides a standard naming mechanism for each file. Note that the `file` attributes contains the issue date in addition to the patent number. Retrieval systems may wish to dispense of the issue date for easier lookup (e.g., single key->value)
2. The `date-publ` attribute allows for instant access to the issue date (versus string processing of the `file` property or traversing the DOM)

Example:

`<us-patent-grant lang="EN" 
           dtd-version="v4.2 2006-08-23"
                  file="US07863507-20110104.XML"
                status="PRODUCTION"
                    id="us-patent-grant"
               country="US"
         date-produced="20101220"
            date-publ="20110104">`

Redbook:
> The <us-patent-grant> element is mandatory and will occur one time identifying the beginning of a patent document. This root element contains within it all elements, content, and references to external entities that constitute the document.

The `<us-patent-grant>` allows for the following attributes:

* lang: (**REQUIRED**) generally "EN", or, presumably the document language (!)
* dtd-version: the Red Book DTD version (currently 4.2 as of this writing)
* file: the unique file name for this element. This element has the form USPPPPPPPP-YYYMMDD.XML, where PPPPPPPP is the patent number
* status: (unclear) presumably this is the version of the file (e.g., development, production, draft etc.)
* id: (unclear) consistently the string 'us-patent-grant'
* country: (**REQUIRED**)
* file-reference-id: implied attribute, rarely seen
* date-produced: this appears to be the date the XML file was actually generated (produced). it is consistently exactly two weeks before `date-publ`
* date-publ: issued (publication) date of the patent

The `<us-patent-grant>` allows for the following child elements:

* us-bibliographic-data-grant
* abstract (zero or more)
* drawings (zero or one)
* description
* us-sequence-list-doc (zero or one)
* us-megatable-doc (zero or one)
* table-external-doc (zero or more)
* us-chemistry (zero or more)
* us-math (zero or more)
* us-claim-statement
* claims

Code 
## us-bibliographic-data-grant


## drawings
## description
## us-claim-statement
## claims